The Seismic Axe is a [Weapon](https://github.com/Slimefun/Slimefun4/wiki/Weapons) added in Slimefun.<br>
It is an Iron Axe with a special ability: when used (default right click), it visually launches up to 10x1 blocks straight upward in the direction the Player is looking at, and any and all entities on these blocks are launched away from the Player and dealt 6 damage (3 Hearts) upon usage. This consumes 4 points of durability irrespective of the number of blocks/entities launched.<br><br>
The Seismic Axe is crafted with 3 [Hardened Metal](https://github.com/Slimefun/Slimefun4/wiki/Hardened-Metal) and 2 [Elemental Staffs](https://github.com/Slimefun/Slimefun4/wiki/Elemental-Staves) in a [Magic Workbench](https://github.com/Slimefun/Slimefun4/wiki/Magic-Workbench) as shown:<br>
<br>
To be technical, the determination of which blocks are launched is as follows: The integer (x,z) coordinate of the closest non-air block within 10 blocks (rounded down) *spherically* of the Player's integer (x,y,z) coordinate along the Player's line of sight is marked (if no block is found, the farthest air block within 10 blocks spherically is marked instead). Only the block with the highest y-coordinate at each integer (x,z) coordinate along the Player's line of sight between this (x,z) coordinate (inclusive) and the Player's (exclusive) is launched, provided there is no block directly above it. (The block at the Player's own (x,z) coordinate will be launched if looking at the block directly under the Player, so the "inclusive" rule trumps the "exclusive" rule if they collide. If you are airborne, however, there is a certain polar angle (angle from vertical in spherical coordinates) range you can be looking within such that the block under you *will* be launched, even if you aren't looking at it.) One exception to this general rule is that if you are looking at the underside of a block and use the Axe, it will launch both that block and the next highest block below that one.<br>
The radial reach is just the projection onto the xz-plane of the line of sight vector (also called the "outline box"; visible as a blue line in third person by showing entity hitboxes; keybind F3 + B) from the Player's eyes to a spherical distance of 10 blocks (again, rounded down) *from the Player's integer (x,y,z) coordinates*. Thus, looking straight ahead will give you the maximum radial reach of 10 blocks.<br><br>
Additionally, the determination of entity launch distances is as follows: If the integer (x,z) coordinates of an entity match those of a block being launched, that entity will undergo launch itself. The vertical distance launched is a set value of 4.875 blocks and does not depend on the distance or polar angle at which you swing the axe. The horizontal distance launched ranges from 0 to 8 blocks and depends on the vertical distance from the Player to the entity and the angle the Player's line of sight makes with the distance vector from the Player to the entity. In general, the greater the y-distance is between the Player and the entity, as well as the greater the angle between Player's line of sight and distance vector from Player to entity, the shorter the horizontal launch distance. Thus, for the most optimal usage of the Seismic Axe, be at the same y level as the target entity and aim horizontally straight at it. Neither the *horizontal* distance between you and the entity nor the amount of entities being launched affects launch distance, making this an excellent weapon for keeping hordes of enemies away from you. (Be wary that this weapon is rather costly for the early-game, and has a reduced durability of 1/4 the normal, or 63 total uses.) <br><br>
The following blocks cannot be launched with the Seismic Axe, so pay attention to the blocks the target entities are standing on: 
